Brief summary of Epilepsy across the Spectrum 
- from data science perspective

	Epilepsy, broadly defined as the occurrence of two or more unprovoked seizures separated by at least 24 hours, are much more complex than a single disorder. The cause, severity, area of brain involved, locations and functions of body  affected are different from patient to patient. Up to 2010, more than 25 epilepsy syndromes and other epilepsy disorders have been delineated. As a result, it is better understood as a spectrum of disorders.

Epilepsy is typically diagnosed by the patient or family members as incidence of seizures, or by the patient’s medical history (in ICD-CM codes). If medical history is used for analysis, it is important to be aware that some patients with epilepsy may choose not to seek medical care or may not have access to healthcare due to socioeconomic or health system barriers.

	Aside from the patient per se, epilepsy imposes direct and indirect cost to the socioeconomic circle around the patient, as well as the whole society. Direct cost includes medication and healthcare, while indirect cost includes loss of workforce. It is important to clarify whether the goal of analysis is to have higher epilepsy prediction accuracy or to minimize socioeconomic cost.

	Several disorders are found to related to developing epilepsy, including traumatic brain injury, brain tumor, stroke, central nervous system infection, autism spectrum disorders, Alzheimer’s disease, Rett syndrome, and tuberous sclerosis complex. Some disorders are found to increase the risk for developing epilepsy, neurocysticercosis, autism spectrum disorders, migraine, hypertension, behavioral problems like ADHD and depression. Some relations are bidirectional. For example, history of antidepressants treatment are shown to decrease incidence of seizures. Aside from disorders, preterm birth and genes like SCN1A also confer strong risks for developing epilepsy.

The best dataset would be medical history, along with a response variable of where they were diagnosed to have epilepsy or not.
